Carlos, I would love to tell
you what the Empaty Map
is, what this tool is, how it is
used and what it serves to.
Well, in the process of deciding
which market we want to go to and
once we have segmented and prioritized
it, the next step is to understand
how a person is, how is the
type representative of that
segment to which we want
to go.
The Map of Empathy is a
tool that helps us to structure
how we think, what desires
we have, what we look for,
what concerns that type of
representative of our segment
to then act accordingly.
That is.
It is very practical when we don't
have a representative of the segment
to interview or even, even if we
don't have, to structure how
he thinks and what needs that
person has.
It would be much harder to understand
that customer person, that problem,
starting from an eye in the
blank.
Yes, that, well, just like you
explained to us with the Business
Model Campus, in the end they are
very simple tools, but what they help
you is to structure the analysis.
actually is.
This is your target customer and
you have an eye in the eye, because
I don't know why.
We need to look at all the aspects
that we need to consider.
Not leaving anything, actually.
Well, we already know what it is for.
And how it is.
Well, as we see in the image, the Map
of Empathy is a canvas, it is a
scheme in which in the center of
the whole is the person, the
representative of the segment
we are analyzing.
It has a curious appearance and is
that, if we see in the image, the
upper part represents the person's
brain, the right part the
eyes, the bottom the mouth and
the left the ear.
And precisely, on the basis of
this symbole, it is on what the four
main quadrants are structured.
That monkey is not...
It is not aesthetic, it is not a mere
decorative matter, it has its
meaning.
And you need to paint it so
that it's more inspiring.
In fact, as we see in the
upper quadrant, we have what he thinks
and feels.
How the customer has a
need from expectations, generally
quite subjective.
On the right side, associated with the eyes,
we see what we see.
Facts, objectives, what you see,
what you can see in the day to
day.
Below, associated with the mouth, we have
what he says and does, what his attitude
is, how he expresses it, what his
conduct is.
And on the left we have what
he hears, what he is constantly
hearing in his environment,
in the press, in social
media, etc.
And finally, below, two large
boxes also that will serve us to
make a relationship of what is
what really concerns you both short
and medium-term and long term
and what needs has that representative
of our segment.
That is, basically what we
have to do is go asking
one by one each of those questions
thinking about our
target customer segment.
That is, either thinking about
putting us in the head of that target
client or interviewing
a representative of the segment
based on this structure that
facilitates us to put in order
what he himself possibly knows
but sometimes does not know how
to express.
Before you go on, I'll ask you
a question.
Do we need to use the empathy
map for each of the customers
people?
Of course, you need to make an empathy
map for each segment.
Each representative of the segment
will have different opinions,
desires, needs and concerns.
In some cases, they may coincide or
not.
But each segment, a map of empathy,
a customer person and then a
marketing mix and a concrete
value proposal that gives response
to the concern we have detected
in the map of empathy.
I like, as we see in the picture,
always clarify in those four quadrants
that my experience tells
me that they are not always clear
or there are doubts about where I
put what.
I over time and after having done many
exercises with the map of empathy
associate, as we see in the image,
what he thinks and feels about opinions,
desires, what he would really like,
what there is subjectively in that
person that he would like in
the future, what he sees concrete
facts, objective facts
he is seeing in his day
to day.
What do the employees usually
say and do?
In general, people when they talk
we talk to complain, very rarely people
talk to say beautiful things and
they listen to opinions of
third parties, mainly
opinions of third parties
and that therefore influence
their way of thinking and
behaving.